# Project Synopsis

For our research project, we wanted to understand how antifouling paint would impact the physiology of hairy shore crabs, *Hemigrapsus oregonensis*. Antifouling paint is a product that is typically applied to marine substrates such as boats and buoys to prevent biofouling, the accumulation of algae and small marine organisms on surfaces. Antifouling paint is used to prevent the organisms from latching onto surfaces and is known to contain toxic amounts of metals such as copper, lead, and zinc. When trace metals like copper, zinc, and lead enter the marine environment, they tend to dissolve after a period of time. When this happens marine species can absorb these trace metals through their gills and skin and from consuming sediment. Although trace metals are important nutrients (as an example copper is used as a cofactor for enzymes involved in respiration and other metabolic processes) when they are over a certain concentration, they can become toxic and can impact growth, regulation, and other processes. Given this information, we were curious to see what impacts antifouling paint would have on the stress physiology of hairy shore crabs

Our experiment took inspiration from a model experiment about the impacts of antifouling paint on *Artemia* brine shrimp. When *Artemia* were exposed to a 100 mm2 surface panel covered with antifouling paint in 8 mL of seawater, there was a reported 90% mortality after 48 hours (Persoone and Castritsi-Catharios 1989). In other studies, copper was found to be toxic through oxidative stress. The osmotic and ionic processes cease when copper increases, and this will prevent the organism from maintaining a homeostatic state and increase the amount of stress on the individual. When we think of the size of boats, and buoys, they are covered by much more antifouling paint than the test panel in the Artemia study, indicating that they are likely much more toxic. This led use to create our null and alternative hypotheses - there will be no changes to crab ecophysiology in response to antifouling paint (null), there will be an increase in righting time and lactate and triglyceride levels with crabs exposed to increasing amounts of antifouling paint. Triglycerides are a form of energy storage, so we expected to see increased use of triglycerides with increased stress. Lactate increases with anaerobic respiration, which we would expect to increase with stress.

Our setup consisted of 3 tanks filled with water at 15 degrees C, each containing 5 crabs. One piece of aluminum foil covered in paint was put into each tank at 3 sizes - 4cm^2, 16cm^2, and 64cm^2 of sprayed surface. The crabs were left in the tanks for one week. After one week, righting time was collected by putting crabs on their backs and using a stopwatch to determine how fast they righted themselves. Triglyceride and lactate levels were taken through hemolymph extraction and analysis. Our results showed that there was an increase in righting time with an increase in paint surface area. Lactate Levels increased from small to medium size before being lowest for the large antifouling paint tank. 
